Hi to.
My name is Andrei Kulinch and we
are starting to consider the price setting.
What is Price?
In value-appropriate price - is the
total amount of benefits from the
product or service you offer.
Benefits are both material
and intangible benefits divided by
the total amount of the purchaser's
costs, both monetary and
non-monetary.
Costs are often understood, including
the cost of changing the finished
products according to the
characteristics of the new supplier.
Changes in the usual mode
of consumption or use of goods.
Costs related to staff training
etc.
The price.
The only element of
the marketing mix that
generates profit, while the rest
determine the company’s costs.
Price is also the most flexible element
and, unlike product characteristics
and marketing channels,
it can be changed
quickly.
Price competition is one of the
major problems of most companies.
The role of price in the marketing mix
when increasing is quite difficult.
We have already said that price is
the only thing that shapes the company’
s profit, everything else is
the cost.
Price transforms value created
for the consumer into
revenue.
Price is one of the most flexible elements,
it is easier to change by changing
the position of the company in the
market.
The price indicates the market value
of your brand or product.
The perception of price and quality
are very closely linked, and we will
talk about it a little later.
Price is one of the most important criteria
for consumer choice.
Price determines your market share and
sales growth rate.
Price is not just what is drawn
on the price list or in the
price sheet.
Price - these are credit terms, discounts
with which you deliver the goods, flexibility
in pricing depending on the volumes
or other conditions of purchase of the
goods, these are geographical parameters,
that is, how the price depends on the
particular region of the sale of the
goods, this is the starting
price and possible steps to reduce
it, this is the time of payment
and much more.
All these parameters form the understanding
of the concept of price.
If we talk about pricing, it is important
to understand first of all the company’
s goals, what we are focusing
on, what is most relevant
for the company at the moment.
If we focus on profit, then as
a rule, this is the target income,
and based on it we already form
the price for our product or
service.
If we focus on sales, then our
goals are to increase market
share and increase sales
volumes.
This is a different approach
to pricing.
Another goal may be to focus
onining status quo, that
is, your position in the market.
Accordingly, we focus on counter-
competition and not price
competition with our
partner, if so, on
the market.
The price of the company is influenced
by both external and internal
factors.
Internal factors include the company’
s goals and strategy, the company’s marketing
goals, the level of costs associated
with the production of products
or the provision of services,
as well as the ways of managing
the company, because they also
significantly affect the value
of the product in terms of costs.
The external factor should include
the type of competition that exists in
the market, the prices and offers
of competitors, as well as their activity,
the characteristics of demand, in
particular, price elasticity, who participates
in the promotion, or in the
movement of the goods from the
manufacturer to the final consumer,
namely participants from the household
channel, as well as environmental
factors, in particular,
the solvency of the population.
Value-forming strategies can
differ in two axes.
Pay attention to the slide.
In particular, we consider the
value-forming strategy in axes –
price and product quality.
Of course, the most
optimal is the strategy.
High quality – high price.
The premium price strategy.
Average quality – Average price is
a strategy of average price.
Low quality – low price – is
a strategy of saving.
However, there may be other variations.
For example, the average price is high quality.
This is a high price
strategy.
That is, we try to be similar or
justify our offers in the market
for the consumer.
It can be low quality, high
price.
This is called the
price theft strategy.
Pricing depends on the
positioning of your company.
We will touch on this a little later.
For example, again, the positioning
matrix in two axes.
This is the demand for the product
price and perceived value by the consumer.
The most optimal is the location
of the goods on the diagonal, when
the requested price corresponds
to the perceived value
of the product or service
you offer to the consumer.
If we are, please note, on
the site above the diagonal, then
this zone is called missed opportunities.
That is, you are asking for a too
high price and your sales will
not be as big as they might be.
On the other hand, if we offer
a higher perceived value at a
lower price, this is a company’
s underreceived profit, and, accordingly,
the company has no opportunity
to develop its offerings
further, that is, to develop.
For example, to illustrate, let’
s consider washing powders as
the most familiar product for
everyone.
High price, high perceived
value - this is the Ariel
Persil class washing powder.
At the same time, the bottom diagonally
will be, these powders, for example,
under the Dosia brand,
that is, the price companies
produce on powders depending
on how we perceive, and the
intermediate products should
ideally be located precisely
diagonally between Dosia
and Real powder.
If we want to build a pricing policy,
we need to go through a number
of stages.
Pay attention to the slide.
The first step is to set
the task of pricing.
The second step is the definition of demand.
The third stage is the estimation of costs
associated with the production of
products or the provision of services.
The fourth phase is the analysis of costs,
prices and offers of competitors.
The fifth step is the choice of pricing method.
The sixth, final, stage is the
final price determination.
Let us look at each of the stages
in more detail.
In the first phase, we
must formulate the tasks
that are facing companies, that
is, within which we
will build our pricing.
The tasks can be completely different.
For example, survival, and in
this case we will build a
pricing policy in such a way
that the company’s minimum
level of viability in the market
is to stretch it out.
This can be the maximization of
current profit, or the sale, otherwise
it is often called the sale of a
company’s share in the market, and
in this case we have an absolutely
different pricing strategy.
That is, before you start
pricing, you need to clearly
understand what the company
currently faces.
The second phase.
We need to determine how sensitive
our consumers are to price.
In this case, we should
consider at least 9 factors.
Factor one.
Does the product have distinctive,
bright distinctive characteristics?
The more unique your product or
service is, the less you have
to focus on your competitors,
respectively, the less sensitive
your consumers will be to
the price set.
Phase two.
How much consumers are informed
about the availability of
replacement products or
similar products?
Here a bright example is the increase
of our price with a deeper familiarity
with the market of household
appliances.
At present, we choose the long-
term demand product that we
need, and already then
buy it at the point of sale
where it is cheapest.
Although we initially had certain
fears and risks associated with
the fact that we would buy a low
quality product, we would buy a product
with the wrong characteristics.
But the opportunity to turn to
our own experience, to the expertise
of friends, acquaintances, consumers,
who left their opinion on the Internet,
more and more make us sensitive
to the price.
The third factor is whether you
have the ability to compare
or compare your offers with the
offers of competitors.
For example, if you chose a tariff from a
cellular operator, then you probably noticed
that it is extremely difficult to compare
not only the tariffs of two different
operators, but also the tariffs
even within the same operator.
At some point we abandoned
the idea of rational decision making
and went into the realm
of emotions.
We were less clean at
the price.
The same situation is observed when
purchasing, for example,
cars, laptops and other goods.
How much the costs of purchasing this
type of goods occupy a significant
part of the consumer budget.
If it is a small cost, we pay
less attention to the price.
Do you know how much the light bulbs cost?
I am not.
Accordingly, most likely, at whatever
price they are offered to us,
within the framework of reasonable, we
will consider it reasonable.
The effect of final benefit.
an interesting factor.
What value does your product
or offer actually create for
the consumer?
For example, in the consulting services
market, pricing often stops
not from labor costs, but from the
benefit that the customer will receive.
If the customer’s income is tens of
millions of dollars, then it is unlikely
that the consultant will provide
a service for a thousand or two dollars.
Most likely, the price will
be much higher, and the customer
will buy because he gets
a much greater profit than
his costs associated
with the service.
6 is
Does anyone else bear
the cost of the purchase?
For example, was a grant granted,
was the state aid to a particular
enterprise for the purchase
of production equipment?
If such assistance is provided,
then we usually become less sensitive
to price.
7 is
Whether there is a possibility
of using the product Accessories we
often do not think about their price.
However, accessories to a cell phone
are not cheap.
But nevertheless, having
already a prestigious phone,
a mobile phone, we will only
purchase certain goods or
services that can work with
that phone.
Accordingly, on accessories the
price can be set higher,
because the consumer is less
valuable.
Price as an indicator of higher quality
of the product.
Here everything is simple.
Note, if I offer you to buy a Patek
Philippe watch for $700-800
at their normal average price
of $20-25 thousand, you are
unlikely to perceive this
offer as a real watch, even
if they are at least 10
times real.
The price of quality is a very important
factor, and we focus primarily on
the price, giving a conclusion about
the quality of the product.
I have a very interesting example
here, related to manipulation.
Manipulation by the consumer.
One of the manufacturers we
recommended to package their
basic product in a cheaper packaging.
This was necessary to create a flank
brand while defending in a
price war.
But in order not to create
a new product, we found it profitable
to offer the same content
in a more expensive version
and in a cheaper one.
The only thing that has changed is the
packaging, and of course the price.
And now I often stand before a choice,
in front of the shop deck and knowing
that both boxes are the same,
I find it hard to persuade
myself to take a cheaper
offer, because I perceive
quality as lower and I know
that the content is the
same.
The factor ninth.
Consumers do not have the possibility
to store the goods.
All very simple.
If you can’t store a product,
it breaks down quickly, then you
can’t make a stock of that
product and stop buying it
for a while.
For example, the increase in electricity prices.
Who can provide electricity?
None of.
But it is vital to all, and we will
pay the price that we will be
called.
The entry of Poland into the
European Union was a paradoxical
situation.
At the time of the entry, prices
for a number of basic products,
such as sugar, flour, were to rise.
The population began to store these
products in advance.
That is, they stormed hypermarkets,
made huge stocks.
After the entry, the sales of sugar
and flour dropped sharply, they
actually fell to zero.
And producers-suppliers were forced
to lower prices in order to at
least somehow stimulate demand.
That is, by creating a stock, the population
protected itself from a sharp price
increase, became more sensitive
to the price offer for these
food products.
The second step is the definition of demand.
In particular, we need to
determine how elastic our demand
is.
The concept of “price elasticity” you will
consider in more detail in the course of economics.
But still a few words.
Elastic demand is when a change
in price occurs a significant
fluctuation in consumption of a
given good or service.
That is, if prices rise, then consumption
decreases, and vice versa, if prices
fall, then consumption of goods
or services increases.
The elasticity of demand is calculated by
the formula.
This is the change in the amount
of consumption of a product in percentage
divided by the change in the price
of a product.
If the elasticized demand
factor is greater than one unit,
the demand is considered to
be elastic.
If the elasticity factor is
less than one unit, demand
is considered to be non-elastic.
Separate cross elasticity.
This is when a change in prices affects
a change in consumption of another brand
or product.
How to determine price elasticity?
There are several approaches.
First of all, this is an expert
assessment, which is based on
the factors we listed with you
in the previous step.
The second stage, or the second method,
is the survey of buyers.
That is, we and you will consider
one of the targets later, which allows you
to determine the dependence of the volume
of sales of a particular product
on the price.
The third is price experiments, namely
temporary discounts on individual
goods, different prices on the same
territory, for example, in different
shopping points, it is the use
of the Internet and the assessment
of the level of demand for
your goods in different online stores.
The last step is to analyze
the actual data.
That is, we look at how historically
the demand for your product has changed
depending on the price changes.
The main factors, a little repeat,
which affect the number
to the price.
This is the effect of the reference price,
that is, how much consumers are
aware of the prices for a given
product or service.
Another example is the price
alignment of high-tech
goods in the United
States and Russia.
For example, at one time these prices
differed twice or more times on complex
household appliances, but with the advent
of the Internet to clarify the price
in America for this product for me
is much easier than going to the store
across the road.
I can do this without leaving
my workplace or leaving
my home.
Accordingly, seeing a significant
price difference, I will consider
the offer unfair and for various
reasons.
The main thing is the unfairness
of the price.
I will refuse to purchase this product
in Russia.
But such a moment can only
be transferred to goods or
services that I can transfer
privately from one continent
to another.
The effect of complexity of comparison, which
we have already talked about with you.
The cost of switching.
The most important aspect
is the B2B area.
If you have a factory or
factory, some equipment is
installed, then switching to
other consumables is often impossible.
They just don’t fit, don’
t stick with your equipment.
And accordingly, what offer
unprofitable you did not, but
to replace equipment is much more
expensive and more difficult than
to continue to pay the established,
let the unfair price.
The price-quality effect is how
we perceive value in relation
to some objective characteristics.
This effect does not work in
the consumer market, but has proven
itself well in the industrial
markets.
For example, you offer pipes that
are twice as expensive as those that
are currently purchasing LCCs, but
at the same time the data pipes’
lifetime is 4 times higher.
We can very clearly compare the price,
quality and, accordingly, the benefits
of the end consumer.
The cost effect, the share in the structure
and the cost of your consumer.
The effect of the ultimate benefit, we and
you also talked about it and
translated an example from
constitutional practice.
The effect of fair price, in this case,
is already the effect of consumers perception
of the reasonability of your price.
The framework effect, in particular,
is what losses or benefits the consumer
can acquire in the event of a
mistake, a wrong choice.
That is, when buying a chewing
gum, you do not think about the
fact that your costs can be extremely
large.
I didn’t like it, you threw it out.
Consequently, you are less
thinking about both the price
and the choice you make.
These can be combinations of gains
or losses, including.
The effect of stock.
Phase 3 involves estimating the costs
associated with the production
of products or the cost
of services.
In particular, we need to
distinguish between fixed,
variable and total costs
associated with the product
or service.
You will be able to learn more about
these concepts in terms of finance.
We need to assess how our costs
will change depending
on the impact of the experience.
The effect of experience is a decrease
in the price by a given percentage
when the volume of production doubles.
Pay attention to the slide.
It demonstrates a decrease in
cost taking into account the effect
of experience, i.e. historically
produced products.
For example, some Western companies
begin to sell products
at prices that are much higher
than the cost of production
at the first stage.
But then, having accumulated the effect
of experience, they get a significant
reduction in the cost of products and
start to earn on the product
or service.
The fourth stage is the analysis
of prices and offers of competitors.
What are the market offers
your competitors are making
or can make?
If the company’s sales offer is little
different from the main competitor’s
offer, that is, there is no uniqueness
of your products or services we talked
about, then the price of the product
should be roughly the same as
the price of your competitors’ products.
If the company’s offer is inferior
in quality, it simply has no
possibility to set a higher
price than its competitors.
Or this action will be only temporary
with a subsequent sharp
drop in demand for a product
or service.
If the product offered is
superior to the competitor’s product,
then you can set a higher
price for your product accordingly.
But it is important to remember
that the superiority of your product
should be known to the consumer,
not just you or your competitors.
The fifth stage.
Choose a pricing method that
will be used for a sufficiently
extended period of time.
Here we need to take into account a number
of points, for example, that
low sales price is the absence
of profit of the enterprise.
When we set higher prices,
we may not get enough demand
for our products.
The first method of pricing is the cost
method plus the surcharge.
Pay attention to the slide,
we have some data.
Variable costs per unit of product
are $ 10, fixed costs are related
to the issue of dollars,
the estimated volume of sales
in pieces - 50 thousand.
We must calculate the cost of
production of a unit of product already
taking into account the constant
costs, that is, to $10 add
the transferred constant costs
per unit of product.
In this case, the cost
will be $16.
The target bonus is 20%, we
need to divide this value
by 1 minus 0.2 and the target
price based on this method
will be $ 20.
The method is very simple, understandable,
but nevertheless, it does not take into
account a number of market factors, including
competitor prices, it does not take into
account the possibility of losing profit
if you set a price too low, or, on
the contrary, do not get the
required volume of sales at a higher
price.
The next method is the method of
pricing based on the target rate of profit.
In this case, it is an economic
calculation, where we operate
such parameters as cost, which
includes constant variable
costs, and sales volume.
And we try to determine, pay attention
to the schedule, the required
amount of profit, that is, we
set the price, focusing on the
amount of profit we need.
The price of the product affects
the orientation of the product, this
must be taken into account in
this method of pricing.
That is, pay attention to the
slide, it is a closed system.
Once you increase some
costs, such as the volume
of advertising, or more
strive to encourage sellers.
This increases the cost of products,
thereby reducing the overall
margin.
Therefore, when setting prices based
on this method, you need to take
into account all the actions of the company.
As a rule, this method is not
mostly market-based, and
as the first method we consider
is only used to confirm the
validity of prices, which we
will determine by other methods.
The third method is to set the price
based on the perceived value of the goods.
In this case, we conduct
certain marketing research
to obtain feedback from
consumers about what
price they consider
fair for the product
or service.
A little more detailed about one of
the methods of conducting these
researches we will talk below.
The price of education is based on
the real value of the goods.
In this case, a method is used,
for example, the price of quality.
When we set a price, based on the
ratio of the price of quality
for our product, or on the basis
of the benefit that the consumer will receive.
Here, remember the examples we considered
a little above, in particular
about pipes and consulting.
Pricing according to current
price levels.
In this case, a number of
approaches can be considered.
For example, following a market
leader, when we set our price a certain
percentage above or below the
market leader price.
But in this case, it is important
to consider that you are completely
dependent on this leader and will
more involuntarily repeat his actions.
It is important to understand that the market
leader also works people, and people
are typical to be mistaken, and there
are many such examples.
In particular, an approach can be considered
when you set a price, focusing
not on one competitor, but
on a number of competitors.
That is, you put a certain methodology when
the price is taken for a certain type of product
of one competitor - the second, third and fourth,
and you set your price from the average
price you get, i.e. the price of the product
is calculated by the price of the
competitor.
The price of the competitors’
products divided by the
number of competitors you have considered.
In this case, you are less attached to
the mistakes of one of your competitors
in the market and have the ability
to keep the average
market price.
This does not mean that you
have to set the same price as you
did when calculating.
No is.
You can be, for example, 5% below
the average market value received,
or 10% above that price.
Pricing at auctions.
We do not mean here only auctions
or tenders for the purchase
of products.
We can also use a calculation method
based on the theory of probability.
Pay attention to the slide.
We have a table where one of the
columns is a competitive price,
that is, the price we want
to set for this product.
This is an estimate of efficiency, that is,
the profitability of the product, is the
probability of receiving an order at a
given price in percentage, and the expected
roy is already roy of the profitability
of our products, multiplied
by the probability.
Accordingly, probability is
assessed by expert, or on the basis
of market analysis, and we are
already focused on maximizing the
expected ROI, that is, ROI-
production multiplied by probability.
In this case, the most
optimal choice for us is
the cost of $ 3 per unit
of products.
These methods are more detailed
in the work of the last two Nobel
laureates in the field of economics.
The sixth stage is the
direct final determination of
the price of the product.
We also need to take into account
the psychology of our customers.
Here we collect all the material we
have accumulated in the previous stages.
This is also positioning, it is also the perception
of the quality of the product.
This is what number should
end our price.
For example, flat numbers are always
confusing, consumers will be artificial.
But if you buy a car and you
are set a price of exactly $
30,000, it will probably raise
questions.
But at the same time, even the cost
of the car at 31,278, or better yet
with cents, will seem fair,
it is obtained as a result
of reasonable calculations.
We need to consider things like the
quality of the brand, what we talked
about, the level of competition
and the type of competition
that exists in the market.
We must take into account the knowledge
of our product by consumers, knowledge
of the consumer characteristics
of our offer.
Based on these elements of the
marketing mix, the final price of
the product is established.
In particular, on the slide you
can pay attention to how much
changes in the field of brand awareness,
the amount of advertising budget
and perceived quality
of products affect the value
of your product.
For example, with low quality of
the product, but in large advertising,
low advertising costs, the price
will be, take it for the base, $ 100.
At the same time, another extreme
is high perceptible quality, and
large advertising budgets
allow you to set a maximum
price of $300 for a similar
product.
At the same time, average quality, high
advertising costs on the promotion
of the product allow to double
the price from the original.
Accordingly, pay attention to
what parameters or goals were
set in other elements
of the marketing mix.
An important parameter
in the value formation is also the way
of delivering the goods to
the final consumer.
You should consider the supply
chain, the established margin or
the optimal profit for the participants
in the chain.
You should pay attention
to legislation and government
pricing, you should focus on
suppliers or potential
price changes from suppliers,
competitors, and sales staff
that are stimulated
or motivated by the
value of your products.
Accordingly, pricing seems
to absorb everything you’ve
provided before, designing
your company’s marketing mix.
We promised to look more in
detail at one of the ways of researching
the market to determine the optimal
price.
The method is called Price Sensitivity
Measurament and is based on a number
of questions we ask the consumer.
That is, the consumer is described characteristics
or the product is demonstrated,
well in our case, the washing machine
of the washing brand, the
drying mode, the delicate washing
mode, the warranty and other characteristics
are used as an example,
and we ask the consumer a number
of questions.
What do you think the price
of this washing machine is
so high that you don’t start
buying it?
What price does this washing machine
seem so low that you ask questions
about its quality?
What is the minimum price of this
washing machine seems to you high,
but for which it is still possible
to buy.
What price would you buy this washing
machine, considering that you made
a very profitable purchase?
It is important to note that
this survey can only be
conducted among respondents who
are currently facing a choice
and are oriented in the
product you are conducting
the survey.
In particular, as a result we can
set up a schedule where we get,
pay attention to the slide, 4
lines based on the questions
received and 2 lines, this is
the sum of the replies.
On this chart it is customary to highlight
4 points,
in that price that the largest
number of consumers consider acceptable.
It is the point of the optimal price,
at which the least number of people
reject the product because of
its too high price.
The point of the limit of cheapness,
that is, below which questions
about the quality of your offer will arise.
And the point of the limit cost,
that is, at a higher price,
the proportion of buyers who
refuse to buy this product significantly
increases.
Based on the results obtained,
based on the company’s strategy, its
position on the market and other parameters,
in which we talked above, you
can choose the most optimal option
for the position of the
product on the market.
For example, there are goods for
special occasions, such as
tarts, champagne, engagement rings,
then the price for these goods or
services can be quite high.
If we need a product, such as a
beacon, which we will talk about a
little later, which corresponds to
the price level for our products,
then it can be the price of a losing
leader, and so on, and so on,
and so on.
It is important to keep in mind
that for a number of regions or a number
of our customers we
may use discriminatory pricing.
Discriminatory pricing is
the stimulation of the behavior
we need from consumers.
Pay attention to the slide.
In this case, the cost of the
equivalent of water under the brand
Avian - equivalent to 1.5 liters.
If we buy it for one
bottle, we will have
about $2.
If we are going to buy it in
small bottles of 50 grams, then the
price for this water will
already be $ 6.
The manufacturer encourages consumers
to purchase the goods in the most
advantageous packaging for them.
Accordingly, discriminatory pricing
can be used to account
for the location of the
goods, so alcoholic beverages
in the store are much cheaper
than in the restaurant.
With time in mind, some goods
or services at night are much
more expensive.
Taking into account the image
of the goods, in order to support,
position on many goods, a higher
price is established, that is,
to emphasize the status of this good.
In pricing we must also consider
where our product, for which we
are currently setting the price,
is within the product line,
what role it plays.
We must consider which additional
devices or services the
consumer may need in
connection with the purchase.
We must consider prices and
also immediately install
on accessories, in particular,
a bright example of
cars, there we will need quite
a lot of different
accessories to make life
and use comfortable.
The price is assigned from
two components, such as
the initial fee and subsequent payments.
To minimize waste,
we can sell them
in a series as some
raw material for
subsequent use
by consumers.
And setting a package price is the
price for a set.
That is, for example, you buy not
one shampoo, but immediately a shampoo,
a shower gel and a washer.
The variation in prices is reflected
in the overall results of the enterprise.
Pay attention to the slides, here are
the possible actions of the company
and their consequences.
The preservation of price and perceived
quality of the goods and the selective
reduction in the number of customers
will lead to a reduction in market
share and a decrease in the profit
of the company as a whole.
Increasing the price and quality of the
goods will lead to a decrease in market share,
let’s remember about the elastic demand,
and the maintenance of the level
of profitability of the
company in the long term.
Preserving the price and improving
the quality of the goods will lead
to a reduction in market share
and a short-term decrease in profitability.
But at the same time, in the long
term, profitability with a partial
price drop and improved product
quality will lead to the preservation
of market share, while at the same
time you will face short-
term decline in profitability
and long-term growth.
The reduction in the price of goods
with the constant quality will lead to
the preservation of market share
and the short-term decrease in
the profitability of the company,
in relation to competitors, of course.
A reduction in the price of all goods
at a lower quality will lead to a preservation
of market share, encounter profits and
a decrease in the long-term profitability
of the company.
Preserving the price and reducing
the perceived quality of products will
lead to a reduction in market share,
preserving profits and reducing
profits in the long term.
The continuation of a new economic
model, that is, to offer something
new, innovation.
On the one hand, the introduction
of new products into the range
is a risk of cannibalism, when
this sales at the expense of
other products of your range
line, but potentially can lead
to an increase in sales.
Here you must soberly assess
all risks and positioning your
products within the range.
Now the question is, how
to set prices for new products?
If the product is really new,
then a cream removal strategy
is usually used.
That is, at first, the higher
price, yes, is only available
to the top of the consumer pyramid,
that is, the most wealthy
people, but then it decreases
over time so that we can capture
more and more consumers
and make the goods available
to them.
In this case, we get the opportunity
to maintain profitability
for a higher time, gradual
capacity building and less
risk associated with the withdrawal
of this product.
The negative points can be attributed
to a small product, but on the
other hand, and a higher income
from each sale.
If we talk about the penetration
strategy, then as a rule it is already
used when withdrawing goods,
analogues of which exist
on the market.
The penetration price strategy
is when the lowest price
is set, and the company
quickly buys a market
share.
At the same time, the disadvantages
can be attributed to significant difficulties,
and often the inability to raise
prices for your goods or services,
because consumers do not consider
them fair and refuse to buy them.
Such cases have repeatedly
occurred on the market when federal
companies entered the regions, when
the price of penetration was originally made.
After some time, when the price increased,
the sales volume actually fell to
zero.
Neutral strategy is to minimize
the role of price at the same
time, and if consumers are
price sensitive, then this strategy
will not allow you to effectively
enter the market and can only
be applied with a significant
uniqueness of your product.
There is also the possibility
of price changes.
In particular, the initiative
change of prices that occurs
due to your decisions, your actions.
You can do them when you exist
before production loads,
or when your market share
drops to increase it, or during
periods of economic downturn,
to again loads production.
Increase of prices.
As a rule, this is the process of inflation,
the price adjustment by the percentage
of inflation, or the cut off of
excess demand, that is, when there
is a deficit in the market, you should
not miss the opportunity
to get additional profit or
increase in costs.
The most bright example is the
increase in energy costs, which
occupies a significant share
of the cost of almost any product.
You should be prepared for such
actions and provide for their
pricing policy of your company.
A reactive change in prices is a change
in response to the actions of a competitor.
As a rule, this is a kind of price
attack, and here you need to answer a number
of questions why they changed
the price.
This is a temporary or permanent
price reduction.
They get rid of the warehouse
residues, or they have unloaded
areas, or what will other
competitors do about these
actions.
Thus, the pricing strategy
depends on the product
or market life cycle.
So, in the initial stages, the price
is set based on the cream removal
strategy, and usually does not
change dramatically until the market
grows rapidly enough, stormily.
At the same time, in mature markets,
when consumers are better aware
of the characteristics of your
offer, the offer of competitors,
a strategy is used similar
to the price of the competitor.
And with the market's extinction, a
sharp drop in demand, a strategy of penetration.
The lower the price, the longer
you can stay on the market.
It is also important to remember
the need to adjust prices.
Adjustment of prices by geographical
characteristics.
If the logistics in the Far East occupies
a significant share of the value
of your products, then, accordingly,
the prices will be higher, you should
provide for the setting of discounts
and various interconnections when
adjusting prices, you should
provide for pricing based
on some stocks, promotional actions
for the sale of seasonal discounts,
discriminatory pricing,
in order to educate within the
marketing mix, that is,
what we have talked about
with you a little above.
Adaptation of prices is a change
in price taking into account differences
in demand and perceived value of goods.
Adaptation allows to increase
profit or increase market
share.
In particular, when adapting you
should consider parameters such as
the ability to identify buyers,
differentiate your product line,
so that consumers perceive differently
those products that are
contained in your product portfolio,
and these products do not compete
with each other for the
consumer wallet.
You must consider the situation
of buying or using the goods.
In particular, a classic example
is the price setting for pregnancy
tests.
When one of the companies studied consumer
behavior and found an interesting fact
that those for whom this pregnancy is desirable,
in the pharmacy are looking for a test in
the command area and for them the price
factor is not important, a brightly
visible packaging is important.
At the same time, those for whom
this pregnancy is so unexpected,
look for a pregnancy test
in the area where contraceptives are placed.
Accordingly, the company packaged the
same test, in two different
packages assigned different
prices.
That is, in the command area there were
tests in bright noticeable packaging at
a high price and dark undetectable
packaging at a low price in the area
where the display was made and also
taking into account the features
of the deal you are making with partners.
For example, in the industrial segment,
when you make your first deal, you
may go for certain concessions
to give you a chance to prove
that you are a truly reliable
standing supplier.
Discount and account.
You can provide discounts for the amount
of sales per month for the amount of
a single purchase, discounts can
be seasonal, in particular,
in the fashion industry it has
already become a tradition,
discounts are timed to some special
events, the company's
birthday, or a national holiday.
Promotional fees when you provide
and set prices for commodity
exchange barter transactions.
Discrimination may go, as we have
already said, but again
we will repeat by consumer
segments to different versions
of the product, in particular newer
versions of cars sold at a higher
price, place of sale, territorial
differences, i.e. geographical
and time of sale.
You must consider, to
set prices the psychology of the
consumer, that is, how comfortable
for the consumer is the price.
Well, a bright example is the
usual prices, ending at 99, and
these are prices set on the Ford
Focus, below many Korean and Chinese
cars, but this is the base
price.
When you start buying additional
equipment, everything will return
to its own circles.
And the geographical principle.
If you need to lower consumer
sensitivity to price, then
you have a number of ways.
In particular, you’ve all seen the “
200 dollar car” advertisement.
In this case, the cost of
the car is not indicated, but the
monthly payment.
Or the price of the first fee may be
indicated, which significantly reduces
the sensitivity of consumption
to the price.
You can change the amount of
goods or services you provide
to a customer.
This is how products in cardboard
packaging, which weigh 685 grams,
537 grams and so on appear.
That is, leaving a certain volume,
the quantity of goods in this package
decreases.
Change in the quality
of the goods or services provided.
When the market enters its
final stages, certain price
manoeuvres between competitors begin.
In this case, in order to ensure
the price of penetrations, it is necessary
to reduce the quality of the
goods, that is, actually reduce
their costs.
Changes in discounts and pricing are
also perceived differently by the consumer.
In particular, some jewelry
stores offer discounts ranging
from 40% to 60%, and
consumers can’t compare
prices and go to the
significant amount of discount
they may be given.
But they actually pay
a full price for this product.
Changes in time and place of transfer
of property rights are
also interesting.
Well, in particular, working with one of
the telecom companies faced the fact that
they had extremely high prices for
dedicated channels of Internet
access via DSL technology.
When I asked, did you
sell anything?
I say yes, and a lot.
How is?
We provide free equipment
and a channel for testing
to the consumer.
What is the percentage of
equipment returns?
They looked at me surprised, he was not there.
Consumers a month, free of charge
to try this technology, refuse
to return, they have already used
to it, they consider this equipment
their own.
The change in place and time of payment
– a vivid example – is the increase
in demand for cars after car
loans became available.
Change of payment method – all of
you have noticed that money
from a debit or credit card goes
out much faster than from your
pocket.
We don’t know them, we control them less.
Accordingly, the emergence
of payment terminals can potentially
increase the volume of one-off
purchases in your store.
There are other ways
to manipulate the consumer.
In particular, there is a
class of goods that I Cocktail,
Cocktail, sell below
the purchase cost to demonstrate
that all other prices in
the store are also low.
Such price moves can also be
encountered in our retail
trade, when the price of
a certain type of goods is extremely
low in advertising, when the
price of this reference group
is set to be extremely low.
We remember prices for seven or
eight types of goods.
For men, it’s usually cigarettes,
beer, continue the list further.
Women are what is mostly
related to food.
It is in focusing on these prices that
we estimate the level of cost of the
entire trading point.
To check, go to the bar.
A large area where a lot
of goods are laid out.
Look where your eyes
are first.
That is, on which goods you assess
the price level in the overall
trading point.
Thus, by reducing to certain
groups of goods, prices that consumers
remember, and valuing to a price
point, you can create a general
image of your business
as a territory of either low
prices or very expensive.
In the industrial segment, as a
rule, buyers also do not remember the prices
for the entire range.
They focus on certain beacon
products.
Well, in the furniture industry, this
table is a meter twenty-
seven, a sliding tub and a shelf.
The total cost of this set is
estimated by the level of cost
of the natural collection.
Goods are scary, usually they are
not sold, they give us a comparison point.
Well, a simple example, when
you come to a mall to make
a purchase, the first offer
we usually never buy.
Why is?
We need to compare how expensive
it is, so cheap it is.
And in these cases, it is sometimes
useful for the consumer to ask this
point of comparison, that is, to expose
some desirable that this product is
not present in other stores, that
is, the consumer did not understand
its real value or value and a simple
example you go to the store of household
appliances to buy a hair dryer and
on the showcase pay attention to
that there is a hair dryer for
one and a half thousand rubles, but
almost the same but a little brighter,
with another unknown brand,
already for seven to eight
thousand rubles.
For a thousand and a half
rubles, this is very
cheap.
You just asked a point
to compare the price.
Vehicles or goods of
interrelated demand.
We talked to you recently in the
section dedicated to the product range.
That is, it is very
useful to set low prices on
goods that consumers regularly
take, but by purchasing these
goods, they take the rest
of the range, increasing your
sales.
Contact products are goods that consumers
come to look at, often do
not buy, but they are interested
in seeing what they can not afford,
but they seduce the consumer
to the point of sale or to
you, to get acquainted
with this sample, in the near
future, such a product will
be a mobile phone from Apple,
iPhone.
Sweets are extremely attractive
offers that consumers
are resorting to.
Such a strategy is used by discounters
in the field of household appliances,
regularly throwing some extremely
attractive offer on the market.
This offer seduces consumers
into their shopping centers and already
further with them directly
sellers, the task of which is to
switch the customer from the
most attractive product, sweet
goods, to one that is more interesting
to sell shopping points.
A competitive confrontation.
You can fight not all
the range, but certain positions.
So, not so long ago in
St. Petersburg, price wars unfolded,
where the tarantula became the candy
of Rafael.
The price before them fell,
if I am not mistaken, to 76 rubles
per package at a normal fair price,
about 120 rubles per package.
Regularly, trade networks
are waging trade wars with
each other to demonstrate
low prices.
But they do not lower the price for the entire range.
They use only certain categories
or individual brands
for this.
What to do if you are being forced to go
to a price war?
It is better not to enter it at
all, because the price war
is devastating for the industry,
especially where there is
eligopolistic competition.
In other words, companies that are equal in
force are fighting against each other.
And often for the principle of
fighting to the last, that led to
the bankruptcy of leading
players, from this benefit
other companies that have not previously
been present possible in these
markets, as in terms
of industry or geographical affiliation.
First of all, if you want to win
the war, you must prepare for it,
and for this it is necessary to discover
its strategic intentions and capabilities,
that is, the company must demonstrate
that in the event of a price
war it will fight to the last
and very hard, and has the
lowest level of costs of all
other players in the industry,
that is, it will be able
to offer prices below the
rest to its consumers.
Such an image tends to
keep other players from
unleashing a price war,
try to compete on quality.
If there is a price war, teach the
consumer to determine where the
quality products are, where
they are of poor quality.
Set them a basis for comparison,
teach them.
In this case, you can refrain from
participating in a price
war, losing slightly in sales.
Call for help and cooperation
in the event of a price war
of your customers.
Explain to them what may
lead to their desire to switch
to some currently more profitable
offers in the
long run.
The government can also
seek protection from dumping.
If there is still a price war,
try to use comprehensive
measures.
Offer consumers for the same price
as before, two units of the product,
which corresponds to a 50% discount.
On the one hand, you provide a discount,
meaning you are competitive.
On the other hand, you keep
your sales in cash, which
is very important, and you
do not allow consumers
to switch to competitors.
Why is?
Because if he has formed
some stock of your products,
he will not buy the products
of competitors.
Do not engage your base
brands or trademarks in price
warfare.
In this case, it makes sense to create
a flanking brand.
The brand is costly.
It will never pay off, but will
protect the main brand from distortion
of image or positioning breakdown.
To engage the price war with the
flank brand, which protects
from lower prices, and your main
products you will be leading
the price manoeuvres.
More and more, lowering prices
in the market, for this class of
products, yes, carrying losses,
but retaining again, I repeat, my
main brand.
When prices fall to such a level
that it will not be interesting,
not attractive to continue the
war for all the other market participants,
they will not be able to return
the standard prices to their
base brands.
Plus, the lower price leads to a decrease
in quality, which means consumers will
also turn away from them.
Use simple price maneuver.
Try adding some complexity
or value in response to a price
drop, it’s much more attractive
in terms of the long-
term perspective.
So, in order to lead a competent
war, you need to study a number
of questions, primarily related to
consumers, and whether prices
are really important for them,
whether you need to get involved
in a price war, and how much
you will reduce sales, or
increase sales in the event
of a price drop.
The second question is what is the
cost structure of your company,
what positioning and in the long
term – how will you play
the situation after the price war?
Evaluate the behavior of key
players, not only competitors, but
government, suppliers, what you
may have allies, whether you can
resort to the help of an industry
association.
In general, a broader view
allows to anticipate a much larger
range of possible actions.
Assess questions related to competitors,
namely, what is their cost structure,
who will be able to last longer in
the conditions of price war,
and what will lead to a breakdown
of positioning.
But, again, without repeating
all this, it is better not to
get caught up in a price war.
So, we have considered with you a
block dedicated to pricing.
All commercial and many
non-profit organizations
set prices on the goods or services
offered to consumers.
The basis of all prices is a single
concept of prices offered by the company.
New technologies are bringing
back price-setting through
negotiations and revision of
fixed price practices.
That is, the further you go, the
more flexible you will be in pricing.
British Airways has
about 600 tariffs for
its tickets.
For example, a passenger plane
with 300 seats can fly a full
plane at the same time, but neither
of the two passengers will
have a ticket for the
same price.
That is, the company sets prices
based on the time of purchase
of perceived value and many other
moments.
The Internet, corporate networks
and other media devices connect
sellers and buyers around the world.
As a rule, the company will equip
a system of prices for the
product, which is influenced by many factors.
That is, pricing is a matter of
the entire marketing mix and the
company’s strategy.